## Conclusion drawn from experiment
This lab presented two differents methods in order to estimate the direction of arrival (DOA) of a certain sound in a room within an angular resolution of 10°. The first method was a Convolutionnal Neural Network which is able to predict pretty accurately the DOA from a 10 channel STFT of the Intensity estimation. The second method (presented as a baseline to assess the performance of the CNN) is called SRP-PHAT which, basicaly, uses the signals received by pairs of microphones and computes their cross-correlation to estimate the DOA.

Overall, the CNN shows much more accurate prediction, and, once it was trained, was really fast to predict the DOA of a several signals. In comparison,  SRP-HAT showed some large inacuracy with prediciting certain instances of the test set. In addition, this model needs to compute a lot of different quantities, therefore it was quite slow for predicting a set of datapoints. As DOA is often used for real time applications, this model can gain more consistency in the results and more speed for this prediction. 

Nevertheless, this method has some downsides, mainly that it needs to be trained on a lot of data, while the other algoritm can perform predictions from scratch. It is complicated to obtain quality data in quantity to train such model. In the present case, we needed to simulate those data through room simulation using the superposition principle, the image source method and raytracing. Even if this simulation is to an extent close to the reality, it does not completly capture the variance and uncertainty that we could find in real world measurement, which could lead to big issues while asking the model to predict the DOA from real microphones data.

Training is computationnaly more expensive, weights take some memory usage even if, in the present case, it is moderate. If the model would be wanted to perfom better and to have also finner resolution between angles, as well as being better in situation with a lot of reverberation, the computational time of the model would be even longer.

## Performance of the CNN model against SRP-PHAT estimation
The estimation of DOA using a neural network on an intensity estimate provided really accurate results, with a high rate of accurate classifications. When the network was misclassifying the DOA of a certain signal, the predicted one was really close to the true DOA, within 10° (1 resolution point) as we can observe in the figure showing the true estimate and predicted one by the CNN. In the other hand, in the case of SRP-PHAT, while most of the predictions were close to the true DOA, the results were completely off for certain signals. It is hard to find the correct explanation for those misclassifications, but as the signal received by the microphones is "white noise" convolved with the impulse response of the room, it can be due to some artifacts while correlating this noise received by the differents microphones at different time stamps.

In order to quantify by how much the CNN was better at predicting the DOA, the RMS error between true value and predicted one was computed for both models and plotted in the last figures. Results show that the CNN has an error more than 10 times smaller (0.057 rad) than the SRP-PHAT algorithm (0.727 rad). This improvement is considerable regarding the fact that the second algorithm is widely used for many applications in the industry.

## How to get better results from the CNN
Tweaking the different parameters of the model could lead to better performance, and changing the learning rate to find better weights could help achieving a better accuracy. This is called fine-tuning, and is widely spread accross high-accurary models. Also, it can be observed while looking at the training and validation error that the model is maybe is not overfitting at all and therefore might benefit of adding one additionnal layer, or changing the non linear function used in each layer. This would help to fit a bit better the model, as a first step before trying to fine-tune. Overall, it is possible to achieve better results by tweaking the parameters. Moreover, using real microphone measurements to improve the model's generalizability to real-world conditions could be done. Finally, including the microphone’s frequency response during simulations to more accurately mimic hardware characteristics and reducing the domain gap between synthetic and real data is a possible improvment.

## Room simulation parameters that can help achieving a better results 

As observed in the predicted DOA from the CNN, the model would probably perform better by increasing the angle resolution, however it would also mean using much more training examples to generalize better the output in any direction. Also, using a larger range of T60 could be done too, for the model to be applicable in more cases (when reverb is small or large). To improve the accuracy of the model on some specific data, it would be possible to simulate rooms with lower reverberation times as it is known that the reverberation in the measurement leads to more error. 

## Other dataset that could be used in order to train the ANN
In order to predict the direction of arrival, we could imagine using a dataset of multichannel room impulse response. This could allow us to compare the measurement in different spots in space, comparing data such as direct to reverberant ratio (DRR) and would potentialy use statistics between microphones to output the optimal repeated measurement.
